# Molecular_recognition

## Introduction:

This functional script can be applied to analyze the trajectory files of simulations, which are generated by **LAMMPS**. It can do statistics of the number of molecules with simulation time, as it can analze the composition and connectivity of atoms inside one molecule. Such a script is especially useful for simulations under reactive force field (**ReaxFF**). In our group, we focused on the simulations of BN hydrides using **ReaxFF**.

## Once you got a **LAMMPS** Trajectory file, you could apply our script for compositional analysis. The main procedure is like this:

- 1). You have to install Python in your desktop, keep all the files in one folder (you could change the bonding length in the **setting** file), and then run the main program **MoleculeClassification.py**;

- 2). Once the program is running, you will be required to type the name of the target trajectory file, which you want to analyze;

- 3). Then the script will work and analyze the trajectory file, and do automatic saving of data;

- 4). Once the script finishes its analysis, you could use Spyder to see the saved data and plots;

- 5). Use Spyder to run the file **plot.py**, and you will be asked to input the composition of target molecule: B_X N_Y H_Z, X Y Z means the number of B, N, and H atoms in one molecule, for example, you could input: 0 2 0, then it indicates Hygrogen, and then you can see the plot of generated hydrogen molecules with simulation time, and Spyder is convenient for data saving;

- 6). For molecular recognition, in each time_step, the fingerprint data (in the form of vector) will be saved in one csv file, then users could use these data to write the structures of the generated molecules;

This is a basic version for molecular recognition, more functions will be added into it, to make it more convenient for computational chemists.
